# Spot-Pricing Challenge
## Overview
This repository provides data and tools for exploring the affect of weather data, and stock prices to the hourly electricity prices in Finland. The Data folder contains pickle files generated by the `generate_*.py` -scripts. You can quickstart from `main.py` which already imports the pickle files and shows their correlation to the hourly electricity price, or you can modify the data via the `generate_*.py` -scripts.

It is worth noting that the `stock_prices.pkl` is not as long as the other dataset due to limitations on Yahoo Finance API. Below are the ticker explanations for the stock data:

    "^GSPC",  # S&P 500 Index
    "CL=F",   # Crude Oil (WTI)
    "BZ=F",   # Brent Crude Oil
    "UNG",    # United States Natural Gas Fund
    "GC=F",   # Gold Futures
    "URA",    # Global X Uranium ETF
    "XLE"     # Energy Select Sector SPDR Fund

## Repository Structure

- `Data/`
    - `Raw/`: Files used by `generate_*.py` -scripts.
        - `Helsinki Malmi lentokenttä_ 1.1.2021 - 25.11.2024.xlsx`: Historical weather data. Updated from: [Finnish Meteorological Institute.](https://en.ilmatieteenlaitos.fi/download-observations)
        - `electricity-price-010121-271124.xlsx`: Historical electricity prices. Updated from: https://porssisahko.net/tilastot
    - `electricity_prices.pkl`: Preprocessed electricity prices data.
    - `weather_data.pkl`: Preprocessed weather data.
    - `stock_prices.pkl`: Preprocessed stock price data for uranium, crude oil, gas, etc.

- `main.py`: Starting point for importing and utilizing the dataset.

- `generate_electricity_prices.py`: Generate `electricity_prices.pkl` from the raw Excel data. (Not required unless modifying the dataset.)

- `generate_weather_data.py`: Generate `weather_data.pkl` from the raw Excel data. (Not required unless modifying the dataset.)

- `generate_stock_data.py`: Gather stock prices via Yahoo Finance API and create `stock_prices.pkl`. (Not required unless modifying the dataset.)

- `latest_hourly_pricing.py`: A script for fetching the latest hourly electricity prices in real-time. (Can be useful)

- `requirements.txt`

### Get started
Ensure you have Python and the required libraries installed.

Clone repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/konstavenn/spot-pricing-challenge-hackathon.git
cd spot-pricing-challenge-hackathon
```
Create virtual environment and activate it (optional):
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```
Use the requirements.txt file to install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Get started!
```bash
python main.py
```

Happy hacking!
